# Chapter 10
Business had been sluggish for Tony lately. He found himself reaching out to international manufacturers in hopes of securing an exclusive deal to rejuvenate his offerings. The challenge was compounded as several local brands had been dropped in numerous states, primarily due to their failure to contribute to the master settlement agreement.

During this lull, Tony's phone broke the silence.

"Hey Tony, it's Rocco. How's it going? Listen, I've got a friend visiting with his girlfriend, and they're itching for a game of tennis. You in?"

"Sure, I'm up for it. Where are we playing? Just a heads up, I might be a bit out of practice," Tony responded.

"We'll hit the courts at the Biltmore. After, we can catch up over drinks. My friend's got some products that could interest you," Rocco mentioned.

At the Biltmore Tennis Center, Tony was introduced to Renato and Ashley. Renato, Rocco's tennis buddy, and Ashley, who teamed up with Tony, made for an interesting mix. Ashley's athletic build and striking appearance contrasted with Renato's more compact, intense demeanor.

Following their game, the group retreated to the hotel's bar to unwind and chat over refreshments.

"So, Renato, where's home for you?" Tony inquired.

"Originally from the Dominican Republic, but I've spent most of my life in New York," Renato shared. "Actually, I was wondering if you have any connections with the Native American tribes upstate?"

"I do, actually. What's on your mind?" Tony asked, intrigued.

"We've got access to Marlboros," Renato hinted.

Rocco jumped in, "This could be huge for you, Tony. Truckloads of product."

Tony hesitated, "Selling gray-market Marlboros isn't exactly legal."

"These aren't gray-market; they're legit, straight from Philip Morris," Rocco clarified.

"And how did you come by them?" Tony probed.

"Best you don't know," Renato suggested.

Tony decided, "I'll have to pass. I'm actually on the lookout for a solid value brand for the tribes. Anyway, I'm off to a trade show in Vegas tomorrow. Wish you all the best."

After Tony excused himself, the trio lingered, plotting their next steps.

"Tony's no fool. We've got to tread lightly here," Renato cautioned.

Ashley, somewhat distracted, remarked, "He's quite the looker, isn't he?"

But Rocco was already scheming, "It's money he's after. He'll bite eventually."