# Prologue

Tony Sicily, the alarm went off at 6:00 a.m., the sounds of the birds in the backyard. Recently, he had set up a series of bird feeders in his backyard, Woodpeckers knocking on the palm trees, cardinals and Bluejays singing. Even colorful miniature Parrots make a lot of noise. It is a bird paradise.

The business has been very profitable, dealing with Rocco and his Marlboro Cigarettes. Rocco noticed his well-defined abs and reminded himself to stop by the gym. At fifty-five, he could pass for a good-looking man in his mid-forties.

His wife, Angelina, lay sleeping among colorful pillows. The silky sheets had slipped onto the floor, Revealing her naked body. At thirty-seven, she was beautiful with smooth, silky Mediterranean Skin, long black hair, sexy black eyes, and long legs. A great dancer, her early ballet training was prominent.

He stepped into the shower, turned on the hot water, and lathered himself as the aromatic smell of the bath gel filled the air. He came out and shaved himself, then slipped into a fresh pair of boxer shorts, linen shorts, a polo shirt, and brown Sperry top-siders. He combed his hair with his fingers and splashed on some cologne.

“Angelina, are you up?” Tony asked.

She opened her eyes. “Yes, where are you going?”

“I have an early meeting with Rocco at the office. I’ll stop at Versailles for coffee,” Tony replied.

“What time is it?” Angelina asked.

“Almost eight.”

“Oh my God, I have to get up! My Zumba class starts at nine.”

She jumped out of bed and rushed through the bathroom door. She looked back to see if Tony was looking at her. She smiled at him. “Tonight,” she whispered.

The puppy started barking when Tony was on his way to the garage door when the puppy started barking. The buzzer rang; he looked. through the window to his circular driveway and spotted several black cars. Agents in uniform surrounded his black BMW w. AUzi-type submachine gums, a couple of them had their faces covered by ski masks and were wearing bullet-proof vests.

He frowned and shouted through the intercom, “What is happening?”

“This is the ATF,” an agent said. “Open the door.”

Tony opened the door and said, “Do you have a warrant?”

“Tony Sicily, we have a warrant for your arrest. A federal grand jury has issued an indictment.”

“You’ve got to be kidding me. What’s the charge?” Tony asked.

“We can talk about it when we get to headquarters.”

“Are you charging me with a crime?”

“Yes,” the agent replied.

“Then we got nothing to talk about. I want my lawyer to be present if you are asking questions.

The bedroom door swung open, and Angelina appeared, still wrapped in her white velour robe. Her long black hair covered in a towel. She let out a hysterical scream when she spotted the ski-masked agents.

“Tony, what is going on?” she asked.

A taller-than-average agent wearing a ski mask, gun drawn, ready to pull the trigger, looked at her and Said, “Is okay, Señora. Come closer.”

Tony, his hands cuffed behind him, stepped in front of the gun. “That is my wife you’re aiming your gum at. You must go through me first if you plan to pull the trigger.”

“Relax, Tony. We are here to arrest you,” the masked man said.

“Angelina, call Marcus. Tell him some federal agents just arrested,” Tony said. He faced the officers and asked, “Where are you taking me?”

“We are with the ATF and taking you to our headquarters in Doral.”

“The ATF! What is that?” Angelina asked.

“The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives,” an agent replied.