# Chapter I: The Beginning of The Exodus

 Lukas Dante. He was born in the fishing village of Pachino, Sicily. Lukas was the only child of Angelini Dante and Michaela Fabrici.  His Father and Marcello, his brother,  owned a sizeable Fishing boat. Angelini and Marcello would take the boat out before midnight and sometimes return three weeks later, making stops along the Sicilian coast from Sracusa. The Islands of Malta, Sardinia and Corsica, Ragussa, Pantelleria, Agrigento, Palermo and Messina, selling what they had caught the night before like Prawns, Anchovies, Grouper, local sea bass, sardines, Octopus, clams, anchovies Calamares. 

Occasionally, if they found a deal in Cigarettes, liquors, Wines,  and other delicacies, they would be buy and sell in the next port.

At the time Lukas was 8 years old, tall for his age, blonde hair, green eyes, a good looking kid and always chasing the girls in the village, some said he has taking afters his mothers Michaela, a beautiful blonde whose ancestor had come from Catalunia, Spain.

Angelini was tall and slender, with black hair, black eyes, olive skin, his hand showing the callous of some many years fishing in the region, and strong arms.

It had been two years since La Revolucion took over the country. Twelve-year-old Tony Sicily was sitting on the steps of his parents’ front porch, observing the traffic of people, beggars, and the injured making their way to the village plaza, where the fiesta in honor of the patron saint the Virgin of Candelaria was being celebrated. It was February 2, 1962.

Maria, Tony’s cousin, had come over from Miami for the celebration. She had moved to Miami about four years earlier on a worker’s contract. She was of medium build, in her mid-thirties. She sat by his side and pulled out a pack of Viceroy American cigarettes.

“May I have one?” Tony asked.

“Tony, if your father’s bus drives by and Alcides sees you smoking, you are going to get in trouble,” she said.

“It’s okay; he knows I smoke. I’ve been smoking American cigarettes since I was eight. I’m twelve now, and I work in the warehouse,” he said. “I want to go to Miami. I don’t like La Revolucion. We cannot get ham, bread, or American cigarettes.”

“What warehouse are you working at?” she asked. “You are just a kid.”

“Sabatez, unloading trucks of detergents.”

“You are not playing baseball anymore?”

“All the time. I go to Cascorro’s poor neighborhood and play con los Negros,” Tony said.

Two months later

Tony found himself on a flight to Miami, trying to remember everything his father and mother had said to him at the Havana airport. I don’t understand why I have to ask for a guy named George—something about Pedro Pam and a camp in Miami, he thought. Why can I not stay with my cousin?

Tony felt warm under the sweater his mother had made him wear. He tilted his Panama hat and asked the steward for a cold Coca-Cola. The pilot was announcing their approach to Miami.

After the plane landed, he stood up and walked slowly toward the staircase, let the air out of his lungs, and wondered about his future in Miami. As he went through Customs, Tony started asking everyone, “Are you George?” Finally, a man in his mid-forties, medium build, and brown hair stopped him and asked, “Estas solo?”

“Si, usted es George?” Tony asked.

“Ven conmigo, nos vamos a reunir co los otros,” he said.

Tony and George approached an elderly man standing by a van with another six kids of different ages.

“Brother Pedro, this is the last flight today. We can go to the camp,” George said.

Tony got in the van and started to introduce himself to the group. They all were scared. The van pulled away from the airport and drove for almost an hour.

The camp consisted of several one-story buildings and a basketball court next to a baseball field. They got out at the main building, and Brother Pedro said, “Come, children, we have some milk and sandwiches for you.” They entered the reception area, and there it was: a cigarette vending machine. Tony smiled—he had a feeling he was going to like this place.

One year later 

Life at the camp was very busy. The boys had school in the morning with the Marist brothers, who also had a school in Havana, and in the afternoons, they played basketball or baseball.

The basketball coach held tryouts for a thirteen-and-under team, and Tony made the cut. He had a great game against a visiting team from the city.

On weekends, the Marist Brothers would bus a group of kids to Miami Beach to swim in the ocean and have a picnic. On one of those outings, Tony met his first love in Miami. While walking along the shore, he spotted a beautiful girl swimming near the shoreline. She called to him and asked him to swim with her. She was almost as tall as Tony, with blonde hair, the most beautiful blue eyes he had ever seen, and long legs. She was wearing a bikini.

“What’s your name?” she asked.

“I’m Tony. And you?”

“My name is Virginia,” she said while getting close to him and starting to touch him. She pulled his swimming shorts down and grabbed him. “Oh, wow,” she said.

She lowered her bikini and straddled him until they joined together. “Oh, Tony, you feel so big.” In that moment, Tony knew that he was going to be addicted to that feeling forever.
