# Chapter II

January 2000

Tony was wondering what his business was going to be like, now that the federal government had passed a law making the sale of “gray-market” premium cigarettes illegal. He was representing manufacturers and importers of low-cost generic-value cigarette brands.

The morning had been hectic, with calls from customers all over the country wanting to order Marlboro cigarettes, which were no longer available. He repeated the same pitch over and over: The gray market was done.

His office consisted of two rooms: a reception area with a desk and a fax-copy machine in one corner, and his private office with a cherry-wood desk, a network telephone, a computer monitor, a credenza on the back wall that he used as a bar, and pictures on the wall of different spectacular views of golf courses.

Tony wandered through his office and down the second-floor hall toward the main office of the bonded/domestic warehouse of the importer with whom he placed most of his orders.

The receptionist, a knock-out blonde, was shuffling some invoices.

“Is Alfredo in his office?” Tony asked her.

“He is on the phone,” she replied.

Tony walked toward the copier and glanced into Alfredo’s assistant’s office. Chiriana winked at him as she got up and approached the copier. She was wearing a Diane Von Furstenberg wraparound dress. She had a full figure and long black hair, was showing a little cleavage, and had a fire in her eyes.

“C’mon, Tony, I got to make some copies,” she said while rubbing her magnificent breasts teasingly against his arms. “Same place at five-thirty,” she whispered.

He winked, acknowledging the date.

A voice sounded from Alfredo’s office. “Chiriana, will you come to my office?” he asked.

She smiled. “Coming!”

As Tony arrived at his office the following morning, his mind wandered into last evening’s episode. It was explosive!

His cell phone rang.

“Hello, this is Tony.”

 “Tony, I didn’t see you at the gym last night,” Alfredo said. “The basketball courts were jammed. I needed you on my team. Where were you?”

Tony paused. “I had a meeting in Fort Lauderdale, trying to push Optimum to a customer. The customers are telling me to get back to them when the 100s are in.”

“I placed the order with the factory. The 100s will be here in three weeks,” Alfredo said.

“I need to call you back. I’m getting a call from Ohio.”