
  

Chapter III

The Rats

“Hi, Rob. I was on the phone when your call came in. What’s up?” Tony asked.

“Hi, Tony. We just had a meeting with a couple of guys from Miami. They want us to pick up their brand Maxxon, manufactured in Paraguay.”

“Who are they?”

“Rocco and Rosario,” Rob said. “They said that Mark gave them a $100,000 deposit for 10,000 master cases, sixty cartons to a case, and asked us to wire the balance: $4.5 million.”

“Wow, that’s 600,000 cartons if I’m doing the math correctly. That comes out to $7.50 per carton, which is over a dollar above market value,” Tony said. “Has Mark gone loco or what?”

“Tony, we could move the cigarettes at the right price, one truckload at a time. We are not going to pay in advance. Do you know these guys?” Rob asked.

“No, I never heard of them. I’ll ask around.”

“We told them that you handle all our purchases out of Miami and that you are our broker; so please establish the right price, and we will send you the money to pay for the truckload when we need them[A1] ,” Rob said.

“Did you get their number?” Tony asked.

“No, I don’t want to deal with this. I gave them your number,” Rob said.

“Okay, I will handle them,” Tony said.

Tony paused for a second, picked up his office phone, and dialed Alfredo’s extension.

“Alfredo, do you know these importers Rocco and Rosario?” Tony asked.

There was silence on the other end of the line. Finally, Alfredo said, “Yes, I know them. Why?”

“They met one of my customers in Ohio and tried to push their brand, Maxxon, made in Paraguay. Rob told them to come see me since I’m their broker down here.”

“Tony, keep this in mind: These Rocco and Rosario are not to be trusted. Never wire funds in advance to them! Are you going to the gym later?”

“No, I have a late meeting. Then I’m taking Angelina out to dinner,” Tony replied. He thought, Well, according to Alfredo, he had to be extremely careful with these guys.
