Chapter IV

Port Everglades, Fort Lauderdale, Florida

It was Friday afternoon in January, and the weather in Miami was spectacular: seventy-two degrees, not a cloud in the sky. Tony called Caffe Abbracci, an Italian eatery in Coral Gables, and made a reservation for two at 8 p.m.

“Angelina, I made a reservation at Caffe Abbracci for eight o’clock,” Tony said. “I have a meeting in Port Everglades, so I’ll meet you there.”

“Okay, darling. Don’t be late. You know when I sit alone in a bar, all the men start buzzing around me like flies,” Angelina said.

“If anyone bothers you, tell Benedetto, the owner. He’s a good friend.”

Tony arrived at Port Everglades, got clearance at the checkpoint, and drove to John Baldovino’s warehouse. He went up the steps to the office and knocked on the door. John’s deep voice welcomed him in. Inside were two old wooden desks. Beside the computer monitor on the desk on the right was a rotary phone; beyond that, a metal cabinet showing signs of rust.

“Buona sera John, come stai?” Tony asked.

“Benne, grazie, e tu?” John replied.

“Abbastanza bene, grazie. Were you able to get rid of all your premium cigarettes?”

“Yeah. Sold everything I had before the dateline,” he said. “I am trying to manufacture a brand in Paraguay. That is the next segment of the business that will be taking off—value brands.”

“There are a couple of guys who had a brand made in Paraguay, Rocco and Rosario. Do you know them?” Tony asked.

“Yeah, I know them,” John said. “As a matter of fact, I talked with them about making my brand. Why do you ask?”

“They went to see one of my customers in Ohio. The client asked me to broker the transactions. Are these guys trustworthy?”

“A couple of rats. I wouldn’t wire money in advance to them,” John said.

“Do you know their full names and their company name?” Tony asked.

“Rogelio ‘Rocco’ Vacca and Rosario Eacobacci. Their company is Gulfstream something.”

“Okay, thanks. John, let me know when you bring your value brand. I have customers all over the country.”

“I know. Ciao, grazie.”

While driving to Coral Gables to meet Angelina, Tony started thinking about these Rocco and Rosario people. What did John call them? A pair of rats? It was clear that he needed to be extra careful with this duo.
