Chapter V

The black BMW pulled up in front of the restaurant. The valet, a slender young man wearing a red shirt and black pants, greeted him by name. “Welcome, Mr. Sicily. It is nice to see you again. I will leave your car in front.”

“Thank you, Pablo,” Tony said. “Bring my wife’s Mercedes up front as well.”

Entering through the double doors, Tony smiled to the beautiful young hostess, a stunning blonde in her early twenties with blue eyes and a butt that would stop traffic on a crowded street.

“Good evening, Marisela. As beautiful as ever. How are you?” Tony asked.

“Mr. Sicily, you are always so gallant. I bet you say that to every woman,” Marisela said. “I am very well, thank you. And how you are?”

“I say that only to the pretty ones, Marisela. I am fine, grazie,” Tony said, smiling.

The reception area was a cozy room. Candles lit up a Victorian couch and two armchairs in a corner. A small lamp illuminated the reservation book on the dark wood lectern.

The deep voice of Benedetto, the owner, sounded. “Buona sera, signore Sicily. Come stai?”

“Non c’e male, il mio amico. Stai tenendo d’occhio mia moglie?” Tony asked.

“Si, lei e al bar.”

“Grazie. La tabella usual, per favore.”

Tony entered the bar area. It was dark, with several small tables to the right by the windows overlooking Giralda Street, several ladies sitting on bar stools around them. He noticed that a couple of guys were trying to talk to Angelina. She saw him and got up from the bar stool. She looked spectacular in a short red dress, with deep cleavage enhancing her full breasts. She could pass for a supermodel.

“Tony! Que bueno que llegastes. Ese par de moscones no me dejavan tranquila[A2] ,” she said and kissed him on the lips.

“Angelina, amore, you look amazing.” Tony said. “Benedetto is getting our table ready. How about another drink?”

“Si mi amor.”

Tony glanced at the bartender. Luca was serving two ladies at the corner of the bar. He spotted Tony and came over, smiling.

“Buona sera Luca. Come va?” Tony asked.

“Bene, grazie. E lei?” Luca replied.

“Abbastanza bene, grazie. Un cosmopolita per il ladie, e il solito black label sulle rocce.”

“How was your meeting?” Angelina asked.

“It went well,” Tony said.

Marisela approach them at the bar and said, “Mr. and Mrs. Sicily, your table is ready. Your drinks will be taken to your table. Please follow me.”

Tony left a twenty-dollar bill on the bar and followed Marisela and Angelina to the main dining room. They were walking side by side; he looked at their legs, raised his eyes to their butts, and smiled. After a pause, he noticed both of them watching him out of the corner of their eyes while flicking their hair with their hands. This must be a symbol of an animal sexual attraction between a man and a woman, he thought.

The dining room was spacious, with two rows of square tables separated by a row of round, larger tables in the middle. The tables were covered with white linen cloths and napkins, wine and water glasses, and shining silverware. On the walls hung pictures of celebrities—Marciano, Frank, Dino, Grace, Rita. At their usual table on the corner, Marisela placed a leather-bound menu in front of Angelina and two menus in front of Tony.

“Thank you, grazie, Marisela,” Tony said.

“Prego,” she replied.

The maître d’ approached the table and greeted them. “Buona sera, Mr. and Mrs. Sicily. Benbenutti a Caffe Abbracci. Here are your drinks. Will you be ordering wine for dinner?”

“Si, per favore. Una Bottiglia di Casanova Di Neri, Brunello. And for dinner, I will start with a small Caesar salad with anchovies, and the lady will have fettuccine dolce vita, and I will have veal marsala. Grazie, Paolo,” Tony said.

“Molto bene sinore Sicily,” Paolo said.

Later that evening …

“Tony, come over and unzip me,” Angelina said after they had returned to the warmth of their bedroom. “Tony, were you comparing butts?”

Tony unzipped her dress and took a step back. She was wearing nothing underneath. She arched her back and raised her arms to the sky.

“What do you think?” she asked.

“Oh my god, spectacular,” Tony exclaimed.

  