Chapter VI

The Rats …

The following morning, Tony’s cell phone rang.

 “Tony, this is Rocco. Rob gave me your number. We need to have a meeting.”

“Hi, Rocco, I was expecting your call. Do you want to come over to my office?” Tony asked.

“Where is your office?”

“It’s in the same building as Alfredo’s warehouse.”

“Hmmm … I see. Tell you what: Let’s meet at Houston in Coral Gables for lunch,” Rocco said.

“Okay, how about 1 p.m.?” Tony said.

“Good. We will be there.”

Tony paused for a moment to think; he did not like this. “Hmmm, by Rocco, maybe he did not want Alfredo to see him meeting with me. I need to be careful with this character.”

Houston in Coral Gables was a crowded place with quality food and a wraparound bar full of ladies. Its mostly private booths made it perfect for business meetings.

Tony took a spot at the bar and ordered a Johnny Walker Black Label while looking over the crowd, trying to spot Rocco and Rosario based on Alfredo’s description of them. He did not see anyone that resembled them, so he kept his eyes on the door, trying not to be distracted by several knock-out ladies. Finally, two guys walked in. One was taller than average, in his mid-forties, kind of heavyset, with a look that made you want to trust him. This must be Rocco. The other was of average height and older than Rocco.

Tony waved in their direction and they joined him at the bar. After their introductions, Tony ordered drinks for them, and then a beautiful young lady escorted them to their table.

“Have you been here before?” Rocco asked.

“Yes, several times. The food and ambience are good,” Tony replied. “I got a call from Rob about you and your brand Maxxon, and now he is interested in being your exclusive distributor in Ohio and Northern Indiana.”

“Okay. He needs to wire us $4.5 million to pay for the 10,000 master cases that Mark ordered from us,” Rocco said.

“Oh, I see,” Tony said. “Here’s the problem: Rob and Mark are not willing to wire any funds to you. Rather, they will wire the funds to me, I will inspect the product and the paperwork, and if everything is in order, I will wire the funds to you, one truckload at a time.”

Rocco’s face tightened up. Tony could see the anger in his eyes as he said, “Who do you think you are?”

“I am Rob and Mark’s broker in Miami, and this is the only way this deal is going down. And something else: Your price is a dollar too high. They’re willing to pay $6.50 per carton, and you will pay me twenty-five cents commission.”

Rocco’s face was turning red. His right hand hardened into a fist. Rosario touched him on the arm and that seemed to relax him.

“Okay, when do you want to come over and inspect the product?” Rocco asked.

“Where is the product?” Tony asked.

“We have it in the Free Zone.”

“Let’s do it on Monday at 10 a.m.,” Tony said. “Do you have a fax number? I’ll fax the purchase order for a truckload, 40,000 cartons.”

They exchanged business cards and shook hands. “Let’s order some food and drinks,” Rocco said.

“Rob and Mark will go through your 10,000 master cases in six to eight months,” Tony said.

************

Once the meeting was over and Rocco and Rosario were alone, Rocco said, “Rosario, one day I am going to get this guy.”

“Come on, Rocco. All he is trying to do is protect his customers.”

“I will get him,” Rocco said with a sinister smile.

  