
Chapter VIII

Six Months Later

Tony’s business had slowed down. He was calling manufacturers overseas, trying to land an exclusive representation that he could offer his customers. Some of the local importers had seen their brands de-listed in many states for lack of payment to the master settlement agreement[A4] .

His cell phone rang.

 “Tony, this is Rocco. How are you? Listen, I have a friend of mine in town with his girlfriend and they want to play tennis. Can you play?”

“Sure,” Tony said. “Where are we playing? I haven’t played in a month, so I’m a little rusty.”

“At the Biltmore. When we’re done, we’ll have a drink in the bar. My friend has products that you could move,” Rocco said.

At the Biltmore Tennis Center, Rocco introduced Tony to Renato and Ashley. Renato was Rocco’s tennis partner, and Ashley played with Tony. Ashley was of average height, with blonde hair, blue eyes, and nice legs, while Renato on the short side, with a dark skin tone, black hair, and a look in his eyes like he was the delinquent type.

After their second match, they went to the bar inside the hotel and ordered drinks.

“Where are you from, Renato?” Tony asked.

“I was born in the Dominican Republic but grew up in New York City,” Renato said. “Say, do you have contacts with the Indian tribes in upstate New York?”

“Yes, I do. Why?” Tony replied.

“I can get Marlboros.”

“Tony, this is a great opportunity,” Rocco said. “You could probably move truckloads.”

“Gray-market Marlboros are illegal,” Tony said.

“These are domestic Marlboros, manufactured by Philip Morris,” Rocco said.

“How did you get them?”

“You don’t want to know,” Renato said.

“I’m going to pass. What I need is a good-quality value brand that I could sell to the Indians.”

“Come on, Tony. You can make a lot of money with these Marlboros,” Rocco said.

“No, I’m not interested. I am leaving for Las Vegas tomorrow for a trade show. Good luck,” Tony said.

Later, after Tony left, Ashley, Renato, and Rocco stayed behind, conspiring their next move to entrap Tony.

“This guy is smart. We have to be careful not to blow our cover,” Renato said.

“He is so good-looking,” Ashley said.

“He likes money,” Rocco said. “He will fall in the trap.”

  