

Chapter IX

Las Vegas

Tony packed his carry-on bag, got in his BMW, and headed to Miami International Airport on his way to Las Vegas to attend an International Tobacco Trade Show. At the gate, he called Angelina.

“Angelina, I’m on my way to Las Vegas to attend a trade show. I’ll be staying at the Las Vegas Hilton, right next to the convention center.”

“Okay, darling. Call me when you land,” she said.

Tony was able to upgrade his ticket to first class, so he had a very comfortable five-hour flight, enjoying a couple of scotches and a nap along the way.

While walking toward the taxi line, his cell phone rang. “Hello, this is Tony.”

“Hey, Tony. This is Mark. Are you in Vegas?”

“Yes, I am. What about you?”

“Yes. I got a suite at the Mandalay. Where are you staying?”

“I’m staying at the Hilton. Did Rob come over with you?”

“No, he’s in Florida this time of the year.”

“Okay, I’m going to check in and take a nap. I’ll call you later.”

***************

After he checked into his room, he headed straight for the shower. When he came out, he dried himself off, pulled on a pair of boxer shorts, and lay in the fluffy king-size bed. His cell phone rang.

“Tony, this is Rocco. Are you in Vegas? Are you planning to see Mark?”

“Yes, I’ll see Mark. What about?”

“Do you think he will be interested in the Marlboros?”

“I doubt it. His family buys Marlboros direct.”

“What about your Indian customers? At least ask them.”

************

The next morning, while getting his badge to get access to the trade show, Tony checked out all the beautiful ladies walking toward the entrance of the trade show to work the different booths.

As he walked along the aisles, stopping in several booths along the way and admiring the different pairs of legs inside the booths, one woman in particular grabbed his attention. She was very attractive, of medium height, with dark brown hair and green eyes; her skin was that of a mixed-race person. He approached her and said, “Good morning. You have to be the most beautiful model in the show.”

“Oh thank you. You are not bad yourself. Let me scan your badge.”

“Such a beautiful accent—where are you from?” Tony asked.

“I am from Jamaica,” she said. “What about you? Are you Italian?”

“My ancestors are; I was born in Cuba. How about a drink after the show?”

“Maybe,” she said. “I finish at five.”
