
  

Chapter X

November 2005

Tony was sitting at his desk going over some paperwork. Business was very slow. Some of the brands he represented had been de-listed for lack of payment to the master settlement agreement, so he decided to call his customers in upstate New York.

“Karina, how are you? How is business on the reservation?” Tony asked.

“Tony, I’m doing fine. And you?”

“Ah, business is very slow. I don’t have product to sell. Is there anything I can get for you?”

“I’m having a hard time getting anyone to sell me premiums. Can you help me with that?”

“I can check down here to see if anyone is selling. How do we ship them?”

“I’ll email you Valerio’s information. He owns Piedmont Freight. I use them to bring cargo here to Salamanca.”

Tony started thinking about how long it had been since he had been introduced to Karina by a mutual friend in Ohio. They had become good friends right off the bat, and now she was running a large distributorship on the Indian reservation in Salamanca, New York.

**************

Rocco, Renato, and Rosario were meeting at Rocco’s house in Coral Gables.

“Rocco, you have to get this guy Tony to agree to purchase these Marlboros and make him believe that they’re stolen,” Renato said. “That’s part of your plea bargain agreement with the prosecutor, that you will cooperate with the ATF.”

“I know. Let me call him again,” Rocco said.

“Tell him to come to Roberto’s warehouse, and we will have there a couple of cases for him to inspect,” Renato said.

Rocco tapped Tony’s number into his cell phone. “Tony, this is Rocco. Listen, we’re bringing a new cigarette and we want you to handle the sales. Please come to our bonded warehouse on 97th Avenue and 16th street, tomorrow at 10 a.m.”

“Okay. Text me the address,” Tony said.

The next morning, the ATF was in a van outside the warehouse and setting up video cameras and wire taps when a large SUV came to a stop in the parking lot. A tall, heavyset man got out, and one of the ATF agents said, “That’s the CIA.” A few minutes later, Tony arrived in his BMW. The agent said, “That is the subject.”

The front office had a few desks with a few employees at computer terminals; everything looked legit.

“Can I help you?” a young lady asked.

“I’m here to see Rocco,” Tony replied.

“He is in the back with Roberto.”

The warehouse consisted of several rows of full pallets of different brands of cigarettes and a couple of forklifts. There was a desk in the back, and two bay doors on a loading dock.

Tony walked in, and Rocco greeted him. “Hi, Tony. This is Roberto, a friend; he runs this bonded facility for a large overseas tobacco company.”

“Hi, nice to meet you,” Tony said.

“Tony, you remember Renato. We want to show you two cases of Marlboros.”

“Please open them,” Renato said.

“Inspect them,” Tony said. “They have all the markings of domestic Marlboros.”

“They are domestic Marlboros, manufactured in Virginia,” Renato said. “I can sell you these two cases at seventeen dollars a carton. You can take them to your warehouse.”

“No, I cannot have these in my warehouse. Do you have more, like a couple of hundred cases?” Tony asked.

“Yes, I do,” Renato said.

“Okay, give me a breakdown of how many cases are red and how many cases are white. I’ll call a customer in New York.”

  