Chapter XI

The sting begins:

         After exchanging telephone numbers with Renato, Tony left the warehouse and started thinking that this could be an opportunity to make some money and help Karina at the same time.

The next day, he got the numbers from Renato and established that Tony was going to pay with a cashier’s check.

“Karina,” Tony said into the phone. “I got 192 cases of Marlboros at nineteen dollars a carton. Do you want them?”

“Yes,” she answered. “I’ll call Valerio, and he’ll pick them up for me.”

“Karina, you need to wire the money in advance to my account.”

“Fax your invoice to Zulema, Valerio’s sister. She will wire the funds to you.”

**********

“Valerio, this is Tony. Karina gave me your number. I got 192 cases of Marlboros that need to be picked up from a warehouse in Miami for her. When can you pick them up?”

“I can pick them up on Thursday. Fax the invoice and the bill of lading to my office, and Zulema will wire the funds to you,” Valerio said.

*************

The pick-up was arranged for eleven o’clock Thursday morning. After checking his bank account and making sure the wire had come in, Tony stopped in the bank and purchased a cashier’s check for $195,840 to pay for the cigarettes and headed to the bonded warehouse.

At the warehouse, Tony, Rocco, and Renato were waiting for the truck loaded with six pallets of Marlboros to arrive. The back-door bell sounded, and a guy of medium height with black hair and a black beard and wearing overalls and a T-shirt walked in. Renato introduced him: “Tony, this is Pepe, my partner.”

“Nice to meet you. We can unload your truck. The commercial freight truck will be arriving shortly,” Tony said.

“You have the cashier’s check?” Pepe asked.

“Yes, I do. Here it is: $195,840 for 11,520 cartons at $17 a carton.” Tony showed them the check.

Once the six pallets were unloaded, Tony had the warehouse boy open several cases for inspection, to make sure he was getting exactly what he was paying for. He then asked the warehouse boy to wrap them in black and call the piedmont driver to come by and pick them up.

Once the truck was loaded, he handed over the cashier’s check and told Rocco and Renato, “Let me know when you have more.”

***********

After Tony left, Rocco, Renato, and Pepe started to plan their next move.

“This is perfect for us,” Rocco said.

“Renato has been transferred to New York, so I will be the lead between the ATF and you,” Pepe told Rocco[A5] . “We have to make this guy believe that these Marlboros are stolen, and if he ever asks, we deny it. Now we are going to cool off for several months, even if he calls us. That way, he will think they are stolen.”
