

Chapter XII

Tony called Renato repeatedly over the next few months, but the call went to voice mail every time. Could it be that this guy got busted or killed? Tony thought. In his line of work, everything is possible. He decided to call Rocco.

“Rocco, this is Tony. Have you heard from Renato?”

“I think he went to the Dominican Republic. Why don’t you call Pepe? Here’s his number,” Rocco said and rattled off the digits.

Tony dialed Pepe’s number and got voice mail, so he left a message.

One evening while having dinner with Angelina, he mentioned that business was slow and that he was going to the southern trade show in Myrtle Beach.

While walking the trade show, he spotted Karina. An attractive woman in her mid-fifties, she was wearing a white shirt over black pants,. She flicked her hair when she saw Tony.

“Hi, Tony. How are you?” she said.

“I’m good. Trying to sell something. It’s getting tougher all the time.”

“Do you have any more premiums?”

“I’m trying. You’ll be the first to know if I do.”

“Okay, honey, let me know. Oh, I need some Rodger’s. Can you sell me some?” she asked.

“Yes, send me the order.”

************

Before Tony realized it, 2008 had begun. He got a call from Rocco that Pepe had come across some Marlboros if Tony could help them out.

“Do you want me to call Pepe?” Tony asked.

“Yes, please. He is waiting for your call,” Rocco said, smiling to himself.

Tony called Pepe right away, unaware that his call was being recorded. “Pepe, this is Tony. How are you?”

“Listen, Tony, I got over 400 cases this time, and they are hot,” Pepe said.

“Wow! Where are you getting these? You’re not stealing them, are you?”

“You don’t want to know the answer to that,” Pepe said. “I will text you the breakdown and I will have them ready for pick-up next Tuesday.”

“Okay. I will arrange the pick-up,” Tony said.

After getting the text from Pepe, Tony called Valerio.

“Valerio, I need a truck to pick up 450 master cases of Marlboros—250 for Karina and 200 for you,” Tony said. “They will be ready next Tuesday morning. I’ll fax the invoices to Zulema. Please wire the funds no later than Monday.”

“Thank you, Tony,” Valerio said.

  