





  

Chapter XIII

March 2009

It had been a few months since, in a sting operation, they’d sold 450 cases to Tony, and Pepe and Rocco were planning the next truckload. Rocco suggested that they should send their telephone number to Valerio with the truck driver so he would deal directly with them.[A6] 

They decided that Pepe would call Tony and offer the 600 cases they had available, and while Tony was checking the cargo, Rocco would give their cell phone numbers to the driver to pass on to Valerio.

Pepe called Tony and let him know about the 600 cases of Marlboros and the new price of nineteen dollars a carton. Tony made the arrangement with Valerio to send a truck and asked him to wire the funds. He tagged five dollars’ profit per carton in this transaction for himself.

******************

Upon arriving at the warehouse to conduct the transaction, Tony spotted and waved to Roberto in the front office. Roberto motioned him to the back of the warehouse, where Pepe and Rocco were supervising the unloading of their truck.

“Tony, how are you?” Rocco said. “Please call the driver and tell him we are ready for him.”

“Hi, guys. I’m fine. We need to wait till you finish unloading so I can count them,” Tony said.

“You can start counting them,” Pepe said. “There are 430 reds and 170 whites.”

Once the piedmont driver arrived and Tony was supervising the loading, Rocco sneaked to the driver and gave him a piece of paper bearing their telephone numbers and instructions for Valerio to call them directly.

After the truck was loaded, Tony gave the cashier’s check to Pepe, and Pepe said, “I’ll let you know when I have some more.”
