

  

Chapter XIV

June 2014

After his arrest, Tony was taken to an office in the Doral area for interrogation. He was asked if he wanted to cooperate and become a confidential informant. “No way! If you are charging me with a crime, I want my attorney present to answer any questions.”

Then Pepe, the guy in the ski mask, finally unmasked himself.

“Tony, do you remember me? I’m Pepe, with the Marlboros. I was the undercover agent in the sting operation.”

“I have never seen you in my life,” Tony said.

“No. Remember Rocco and Rosario and Valerio, the customer in New York?”

“I do not know any Valerio in New York.”

Tony was transferred to the federal detention center to be booked and placed in a cell.

Tony realized Rocco and Rosario had really set him up, and with all the money he had given them in kickbacks. The pair of rats. “I should have known better than to trust those scumbags.”

The guards kept exchanging prisoners, taking one out and bringing another one in. Some tried to talk to Tony, but he remained tight-lipped. In the meantime, waiting his arraignment and bond hearing, hours went by. Finally, around 4:00 p.m., the guards came to get him, making sure the shackles were secure and handcuffs were tight.

A trio of armed police officers walked him for what seemed like half a mile through an underground tunnel to the courthouse.

When he entered the courtroom, he spotted his wife and Fat Marcus, his attorney. When his turn came up, the assistant district attorney read the charges against him, and Tony entered a plea of not guilty. Bail was set at $200,000.

*************

Once Tony posted bail, he came and greeted Angelina and Fat Marcus.

“Tony, Caballo, come to my office tomorrow at 10:30 a.m.,” Fat Marcus said. “In the meantime, I will call the prosecutor and find out what he wants.”

The following morning, Tony showed up in Fat Marcus’s office and waited in the reception area. The office had a window for customers to ring a bell and two other offices with desk chairs and picture frames on the walls.

The receptionist motioned Tony into Marcus’s office. Fat Marcus was a huge guy, well over six feet tall and nearly 300 pounds. “Caballo, how are you?” Fat Marcus said.

“I’m fine. A little depressed. And you?”

“I am okay. I just spoke to the prosecutor regarding discovery.”

“What is the district attorney’s name?” Tony asked.

“Federico Arsenal. Seems like a nice guy. He says they have a bunch of voice recordings going back eight years, including videos of you and two undercover ATF officers and two confidential informants.”

“It’s got to be Rocco and Rosario. They’re the ones who brought these guys to me,” Tony said.

“You got to be kidding me! Rocco and Rosario? Let me call Rocco’s wife. She used to work in the district attorney’s office.”

“How much is this going to cost me?” Tony asked.

“I have to charge fifty thousand: twenty-five K now and the balance before we go to trial,” Marcus said.

“Wow. I’ll bring the checkbook to our next meeting. In the meantime, find out as much as you can.”
