 



  

Chapter XV

Two days later …

Tony sat in Fat Marcus’s office and handed him a check for $25,000, saying, “I will get you the balance before the trial starts.”

“I spoke to Rocco’s wife,” Marcus said. “She claims she did not know anything about this case, but she did admit that Rocco had a problem with the state around 2004.”

“It was him and Rosario who brought this deal to me.”

“I requested a copy of the indictment and all the tapes and videos the prosecutor has,” Fat Marcus said.

“You better get somebody to investigate Rocco and Rosario and the ATF undercover agents. I want to know where the money went.”

“That is going to cost another $10,000,” Fat Marcus said.

“I got no choice. I gave kickbacks to Rocco. I have copies of the cashier’s checks.”

“What about your codefendant Valerio? He is facing fifteen years plus fines. The word from his attorney is that he might testify against you.”

“The scumbag—I always protected him,” Tony said.

**************

The next time Tony was waiting in the reception area to see Fat Marcus, a couple of minutes late, the receptionist came to get him and invited him to join Fat Marcus in his office.

“Tony, this is Nayib, a private investigator. He will be joining our team. He will bill us by the hour,” Fat Marcus said.

Nayib was taller than the average man and had thin, dark hair. He told Tony that he had been a police detective for twenty years.

“Nice to meet you,” Tony said. “I need you to investigate the confidential informants and the undercover agents. I have a feeling they have a lot of dirty laundry.”
