 
  

Chapter XVI

One month later …

Fat Marcus and Nayib called Tony to a meeting in Marcus’s office. Nayib had a lot of information on Rocco and Rosario and a confidential audit report on the ATF.

“We need to be able to use this information in the trial as part of my defense. What about the cashier’s check that I gave Rocco?” Tony asked.

“It was deposited in a bank on Key Biscayne to a company owned by Rosario,” Nayib said. “It seems that Rocco was busted in 2004 and was facing eight felony counts. He made a deal and pleaded guilty to eight misdemeanor counts and became an ATF informant.”

“What about this ATF audit?” Tony asked.

“It details that from 2006 to 2013, over 6 million cartons of cigarettes remained unaccounted for, and well over $8 million in funds,” Nayib said.

“Marcus, can we introduce any of these facts in the trial as part of my defense?” Tony asked.

“I do not know. I will have to call the prosecutor,” Marcus said.

“I want to subpoena Rocco and Rosario to appear in the trial,” Tony said.

Tony did not like Fat Marcus’s statement that he needed to check with Arsenal. Who was he working for? He was beginning to have doubts about Fat Marcus. He left the meeting wondering if he had made the right choice.

************

A few days later, Tony got a call from Fat Marcus. He wanted him to come over to meet with an attorney who was going to be writing the motions for him … for another $15,000. The legal fees were beginning to be a burden.

“Tony, I want to approach Rosario and ask him to appear as a defense witness to help out,” Fat Marcus said.

“I don’t think that is a good idea. If you approach him, he’s going to disappear,” Tony said. “If you tip him off, we’ll never get him to appear.”