


Chapter XVIII

Two weeks before his trial, Tony, unaware of what had been going on behind his back, showed up in Marcus’s office with his checkbook in hand to pay the balance on his account.

“Tony, Caballo. Arsenal is making an offer. You plead guilty, and he will recommend a minimum sentence, but you have to testify against Valerio,” Fat Marcus said.

“Did you give him my answer?”

“By law I have to inform you of the prosecutor’s deals,” Fat Marcus said.

“Well tell him no, I am not a rat,” Tony said. “Are we ready for the trial? How about those subpoenas; have you been able to serve then?”

“We are working on it. We will be ready for trial.”

Tony left the office, unsuspecting of Fat Marcus’s treason. Marcus leaned back in his chair and rejoiced that everything was falling into place. Now he needed to cooperate with Arsenal, the prosecutor, and play along and get a conviction.

*************

In the meantime, Tony had lunch with Angelina and told her he had reservations about Fat Marcus. He kept thinking that he was not the right choice for a defense attorney. “Look, Tony, you’ve known Fat Marcus for over twenty years. He will be okay. Do not worry.”

The trial, day one:

Early morning on a Monday in October 2014, Tony and Angelina were getting ready to drive to downtown Miami to the federal court building. Tony was wearing a navy blue Italian suit with a white shirt and a red tie, while Angelina was wearing a red dress and high heels. She looked spectacular.

After they cleared the court building’s security checkpoint, they met Fat Marcus on the twelfth floor at the entrance of courtroom one and entered the large courtroom. “Our table is the one on the left. I will sit on the aisle, and you, Tony, will sit to my left,” Fat Marcus said.

The prosecutor’s table was on the right, closer to the currently empty jury box. In the center was a dais were the Honorable Judge Middleton would be presiding. Lower than the judge were two spots for the clerk of the court and another one for the court reporter. To the left were cases of Marlboros and a big sign detailing transactions and profits.

Federico Arsenal, the assistant district attorney, was standing by his table. He was thin and young—mid-thirties—with black hair. He was talking to a lady in her twenties whom Tony assumed was another assistant attorney; she was short with blonde hair and was wearing a white shirt and a black skirt. Next to them were Pepe and Renato, the undercover ATF agents.

The clerk of the court stood and said, “Please rise. The Honorable Judge Donald Middleton presides. This is the case of the United States versus Antony ‘Tony’ Sicily, case number 13- 20570. The defendant is charged with one count of conspiracy that he believes he was dealing in stolen products.”

The judge, in his mid-sixties with white hair and round spectacles, seemed like a fair man.

Fat Marcus’s performance arguing the motions that Rick the ghostwriter had submitted on his behalf was terrible. He came across unprepared, to the point that Tony thought him incompetent. His cross-examination of the government witness was dismal.

Federico Arsenal, on the other hand, was sharp and very well prepared. He played back some of the recordings of conversations between the confidential informant, the undercover agents, and Tony. Some statements made by Tony would lead anyone to think he believed the cigarettes were stolen.

After the first day of the trial, Tony was very concerned, and he discussed with Angelina that he wanted to fire Fat Marcus, but Angelina persuaded him to be more patient.

***********

Day two:

The following morning, on their way to the courthouse, Tony brought up the subject of Fat Marcus, and again Angelina told him to wait and see.

In the courtroom, Fat Marcus again showed his ignorance of court procedures. He tried to show a document to the jury that was not in evidence, which Arsenal objected to, and the objection was sustained by the judge, and once again the judge had to explain to Fat Marcus the proper procedure.

His ability to cross-examine government witnesses lacked substance. He did not know what to ask. With one particular witness, he asked Tony, “What do I ask her?” and Tony had to tell him.

Witness after witness was more of the same, until Arsenal called Stefano Valerio, Tony’s ex-codefendant now turned government witness. The fucking rat.

After Valerio had signed an affidavit that Tony was his broker, he changed his story in court and testified that he told him [A8] the cigarettes were stolen. He even denied knowledge that Tony had refunded $180,000 that his clerk wired to Tony’s company by mistake, when in reality it was supposed to go to Renato and Pepe. Tony had wired the money back, no questions asked, when he could have kept it.

That afternoon, Fat Marcus was trying to get Rocco to come over [A9] to answer questions about his involvement and the kickbacks Tony had given him, but he and his wife were nowhere to be found.

Arsenal rested his case after Valerio had lied through his teeth under oath. Tony needed to do something to help his case, so he decided to testify.

At around 3:30 p.m., the judge brought the jury back and advised them that the government had rested its case and the defense was planning to bring a couple of witnesses. Fat Marcus stood and called Antony Sicily to the witness stand.

Fat Marcus started direct examination, mostly with banal questions about how long Tony had lived in Miami, who his family was, how long he had known Rocco, how often they played tennis together, and how long they had done business together.

Once Fat Marcus finished asking questions, Arsenal started his cross-examination. Right away he started to make Tony look like a liar in front of the jury. “Did I hear you say under oath that you never heard the phrase ‘fell off the truck’?” Arsenal asked.

“I never heard it,” Tony replied. “Cigarettes don’t fall off the trucks.”

“Did you ever use the phrase ‘I am not snitch’?” Arsenal asked.

“Yes, I have used that phrase,” Tony replied. “Meaning I am a man of integrity.”

“Have you ever been convicted of a crime?” Arsenal asked.

“Yes, I have. Possession of marijuana.”

“And you told Renato Rodriguez that you knew names he could not believe.”

“Yes, I did.”

“Tell me their names. I need to remind you that you are under oath?” Arsenal asked.

“I’m not going to tell you any names,” Tony said. “I was only telling these characters, playing crooked guys, what they wanted to hear.”

“So, you are not a snitch, but you lie to the jury,” Arsenal said.

“I am not lying to the jury. I never believed the product was stolen. I even asked Pepe, and he said no.” Tony added, “I always thought the duty of a district attorney was to seek the truth, not to convict an innocent man.”

“You are not a snitch,” Arsenal said.

*************

Day three—the verdict:

The following morning, Angelina and Tony admitted to each other that the outcome did not look good, though Angelina thought Tony had come across very well in his testimony. They arrived at the courtroom, and Tony asked Fat Marcus if Rocco was going to show up.

Marcus assured Tony that he had spoken to Rocco’s attorney and that he was going to show up at nine o’clock.

After discussing the jury instructions, during which Fat Marcus refused to argue the “buyer and seller relationship,” which would prove that there was no conspiracy, the government, since it had the burden of proof, went first with its closing arguments.

Arsenal summarized his case for the jury. He played back snippets of the recorded conversations, emphasizing Tony’s statements in a way that would lead anyone to believe that he thought the cigarettes were stolen. He went overboard showing the profits Tony had made in the transactions, and reviewed Valerio’s testimony as if he had told the truth, all while telling the jury, “He is guilty.”

Fat Marcus went over the fact that Tony was a family man, that he had asked whether the cigarettes were stolen, and that he was told no by the undercover agent. But all along, his defense approach was that Tony was Valerio’s broker. Then he told the jury, “Sicily purchased and sold these cigarettes,” contradicting his whole approach. Tony could not believe that Marcus had thrown him under the bus.

It was almost noon when the jury retired to deliberate. They came back out at 1:30 with the verdict.

“Ladies and gentleman of the jury, have you reached a verdict?” Judge Middleton asked.

“Yes, we have, your honor,” the foreman replied. “We find the defendant, guilty.”

Tony was not surprise by the verdict. Now he was just worried about how much time he would have to do.
