# INTRODUCTION
Finding the space to be creative in your writing is critical to creating stories that will engage and delight your readers. The writing process should be enjoyable and satisfying and, at times, this is actually what happens when you find yourself in the smack bang in the middle of the ‘flow’; words pour out, the characters spring to life and the story unfolds effortlessly. However, it’s not always like this. Sometimes, it can become difficult and arduous, with each word feeling like you each drawing blood. But you can find you way back to the ‘flow’ easier than you might think.

So with that in mind I have good news and bad news.

First the bad news.

For years, teachers (whether at school, on social media or in creative writing workshops) have been teaching you the wrong stuff about the best way to write. You’ve been given a ‘bum steer’, as my grandfather used to say. You’ve been sold a dud.

You see, all that stuff about flowery prose, about having a narrator tell the story and about using 'powerful words' has crept into your brain and made your writing bad.

There, I’ve said it.

Let’s not blame the teachers. Like all well-meaning busybodies, they know no better.

They are just teaching you what they were taught and its what they think is right.

Devastating I know but dry your tears. Here comes the good news.

In the following pages, I am going to teach you how to write like a pro. I’ll show you the techniques that famous authors, such as Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald, developed and used to create some of the most memorable work in literature.

Here’s the best news. It’s easy.

Well, that’s not true; it is simple but not always that easy, but I don’t think you were ready to hear that just yet, so let’s stick with easy.

You don’t believe me?

OK, here’s a simple technique that you can immediately apply to your writing. Without reading another chapter of this book, this one technique will make you a better writer. Later on, we will delve into the theory behind this technique, but, at this moment, I just want to show you that I’m the real deal.

It goes like this …

Take a scene from your book (any scene, I don’t care) and then reimagine the scene as if the narrator is looking through a camera. Picture the scene in your mind’s eye;see the action and hear the words.

Think the whole scene through. Start at the start and imagine each moment step by step.

Now, with this scene in your mind, rewrite the scene JUST describing what the narrator can see. If the narrator can’t see it, it stays off the page.

That’s important.

If the narrator can’t see something, it can’t go into the scene. That means, no thoughts and no internal dialogue, just plain old action and conversation. What happens here is really important. You will be forced to describe the action as it happens. Perhaps what is more important is what you are NOT forced to write. If describing only what the camera can see, then two important elements are immediately removed from your writing: internal dialogue and backstory. If you need to pass on a vital nugget of information about the main character’s past, then the only option you have is to do it via dialogue. If you want to tell the reader that the main character is sad, you must SHOW the reader how the character is sad. That means describing the character’s tears, so more tears and the removal of the classic “she was sad” line.

And that’s it.

If you are able to apply this Camera Technique to your work, you will be a better author.

Promise. Just try it.

The Camera Technique is the foundation of the way you will be taught to write by this book, a method of writing that will stimulate emotion in your readers and help produce memorable books.

Like I said, the concept is simple but its application is probably a lifetime's journey into becoming the best writer you can possibly be.

I am not suggesting that you remove character development, backstory and worl building, far from it. I will, in fact, be suggesting that these elements are the most important elements of storytelling. However, I am suggesting there's a way to write that will super charge these concepts and leave your readers loving your world and characters. 

The remainder of this book is a description of how and why this technique works so well. Yet it is not dry theory; instead, you will be given detailed and pragmatic examples of how you can apply the theory to your writing.

If you apply the lessons I am teaching in this book, you will become a better writer.