# Writing Books Readers Want to Read
Did you know that just under half the people who start reading a book will not get past the first one hundred pages?

This means that about half the people who pick up your book will just give up before they reach the midpoint. The flip side, of course, is that about half of your readers will persevere.

But of these, how many of these will actually finish?

Well, in a recent survey, only 38% of readers said they would read to the end of a book, no matter what.

This is shocking.

In a world where book prices are lower than ever, where access to books, especially digitally, is almost unlimited and where readers are prepared to take a gamble on new and unknown authors, your job as an author is clear.

You must write books that excite and engage readers. If you don’t, they’ll just stop reading.

But if you are going to write exciting books, you must first understand what makes a reader stop reading.

Some of the obvious candidates are important. Readers suggest that dislike of the main character plays a part, as does weak writing and a poor plot. Yet, these are not the key reasons readers give up. There is one reason, far beyond any other, that stops people reading.

The single biggest reason people stop reading is that they found the book boring!

This should be like a dagger through your author’s heart. After all, how can a reader find your story boring? You’ve sweated blood over the plot, thought for countless hours about characters and even written out a painstaking backstory for your world and its inhabitants.

The reader must be wrong. 

Your book’s not boring …

Or is it?

Well, here’s a secret. It’s probably your fault (and the fault of those busybody teachers).

You are not doing it on purpose, and you’ve probably never been told you are doing it, but you might just be writing boring books.

Before you start typing that angry email to Dear Gary, let me explain …

It is probably not what you are writing that is boring, but the way you are writing.

Authors often become tangled up in their book’s story (let’s call it **plot**) much more than the way in which the book is written (we’ll call this **structure**).

For many authors, the plot is more important than the structure. Afterall, we’ve all been told that story sells, that readers are looking for a good story, even that the story will win out, and this is true. Story is essential. But the problem is that, with 100% focus on story, there’s no time to consider structure.

Let’s re-address that balance. 

It time that you started to think a little differently about the novels you are writing. AS we have seen, a novel consists of two key elements:

    1. The first element is **story**; this is the book’s plot.
    2. The second element is the way in which the story is told. This is the book’s **structue**.
   
So with this clear, let’s throw in one of those gems that will change the way you look at novels.

Story and structure are separate. You can tell the same story in a number of different ways. It’s possible to write a novel using one structure, then take the same story and rewrite the novel using a very different structure. 

A great example is Shakespeare’s *Romeo and Juliet*. Old Bill wrote it one way, but if you take his story, set it in New York and throw in some showtunes, then you have *Westside Story*; same story, different structure. 

But what’s this got to do with boring books?

You see, it may not be that your story is boring. It is far much more likely that the technique you are using to tell your story is intrinsically boring. I am not saying your writing is bad. I am saying that you haven’t been shown the best way to write non-boring books. This stuff isn’t obvious; you will not know it unless you’ve been shown. Its worth dwelling here for a moment. I have been editing books for over fifteen years and during this time I edtied close to a thousand different stories. One thing that becomes clear is that most authors have an inbuilt understanding about the 'shape' of story. However, knowing which shape to pick and when is not something you just pick up. It is a learned skill.

Storytelling is a natural process. We are weaned on stories; our life is told in stories. Our brains are hardwired to understand, consume and think in stories. We have been telling each other stories from the days of the caveman and in this world of lifechanging technology, the shapes of stories remain consistant.

In short, being a storyteller is natural. 

The problem you face is that while storytelling is natural, being an author requires a new understanding. Being able to tell a story in your chosen format (novel), requires a knoweldge beyond the instinctual.

So what does this mean in the real world of Amazon reviews?

If you are a great storyteller (plot) but have poor writing technique (structure), you will produce boring novels. On the flip side, if you are a poor storyteller but have great writing techniques, you will also produce a boring novel. 

Remember, our definition of boring is a book a reader fails to finish.

If you are to produce a novel that will engage and inspire a reader, you need skills in both storytelling and story writing.
Now for the good and bad news.

The bad news first. Storytellers are born, not taught. Being able to tell a good story is something in your bones. If you can’t tell a good story, then stop reading now. I am wasting your time. However, the chances are that, if you are even considering writing a novel, then you have the storytelling bug.

Here’s the good news: writing techniques can be taught.

In fact, unless you have been shown how to write in a way that will engage your reader, then you will be grasping in the dark. We all have some latent knowledge, which we have picked up by reading novels. However, without understanding the principles behind the writing techniques, you will be flying blind.

> “You can’t teach someone to know how to use words effectively and beautifully. You can help people who can write to write more effectively, and you can probably teach people a lot of little tips for writing a novel, but I don’t think somebody who cannot write and does not care for words can ever be made into a writer. It just is not possible.”
\ – P. D. James

Now … time for a little honesty.

There are many ways to write novels, though the basic principles remain the same. For years, editors and authors have been arguing over the best practices. Some suggest that large amounts of description are essential, others that anything other than the most basic description is unnecessary. Moreover, what has been considered the best writing technique has changed over time. We have been through periods where prose over overly flowery, only to a few years later, transition to a trend towards more minimalist style. 

Take *Moby Dick*. 

The book is, rightly, considered to be one of the greatest novels ever written. However, it would struggle to be published today. In places, the technique used is simply outdated. If you have never read this novel, then you should, its a classic for a reason. However, be warned, you will find not only large narrative “lectures” on a wide variety of topics, including Melville’s thoughts on the taxation of fisherman but also whole chapters on the debate over whether a whale is a fish or a mammal (spoiler alert, it’s a mammal). Yet Melville remains a great storyteller. He wrote *Moby Dick* at a time when we were still experimenting with the novel as a storytelling format. Many of the rules we now agree are best practice simply were not in place.

There is little doubt that, if *Moby Dick* were written today, it would be a very different novel.

So, why, despite all these problems, would I still insist that *Moby Dick* is one of the greatest novels ever written?

The answer is the Melville was trying to do what all great novel writers try to do. 

Let's go back to that quote at the start of this book...

> All good books are alike in that they are truer than if they had really happened and after you are finished reading one you will feel that all that happened to you and afterwards it all belongs to you: the good and the bad, the ecstasy, the remorse and sorrow, the people and the places and how the weather was. If you can get so that you can give that to people, then you are a writer.”
\ -  Ernest Hemingway

Melvile, and Hemingway, were trying to write the emotional truth of being a human.

The aim of a novel is to tap into an emotional truth and to shine a light on human nature. Novelists, as all artists, are in the business of stimulating emotions. After all, that’s the point of a good story, to highlight a universal truth. 

Melville's *Moby Dick* is an examination of revenge, fate and free will. The biggies. 

And it is here that we finally start to shed some light on the real reason reader's are finding your book boring - you are not tapping into that emotion. Readers are just not 'feeling' anything when they read your book. You are just not stimulating that emotion. 

So, when considering the best way to write a novel, you must ask yourself one simple question: what’s the best way to express emotion?

It is your duty as a novelist to create books that truly touch a reader and alter the way they view the world. The ability to find and express emotion, at a level beyond the words, must be the aim of all novels. How does your novel make the reader feel? Authors must always be striving to discover the truth behind the words and to tap directly into the reader’s emotional honesty.

This is a huge task, and like I said in the introduction the theory is simple but the effective practice is a lifetime's journey.

The rest of this book addresses this one simple question - How can we make a reader feel emotion?

So let's start with something simple. In a novel format, there are three places where emotion can be expressed:

    1. The dialogue between characters.
    2. The actions of characters.
    3. In the reader’s mind.
   
Let’s just dwell on this a moment.

It is easy to see how dialogue can express emotion. However, the emotion we elicit via words is the emotion felt by the characters. It is not the deeper, universal emotion, which great novels seek to spark in the reader. 

Notice the difference? 

We are not looking to write emotional characters but make the reader *feel* emotions. We are looking to stimulate emotion in the reader, and this is not the same as writing emotional characters.

For example, let’s take the novel *The Color Purple*. This novel stirs deep universal emotions. It seeks to stimulate the reader to consider the truths behind the human desire for freedom. This is a universal emotion. A deep truth.

Where will an author find these universal emotions?

The answer, ironically, is in the mind of the reader. 

As an author you are not inventing emotions; you are just trying to stimulate them. That’s what we mean by "truthful writing"; that is writing which arouses a universal truth. The words and actions of a novel are the keys to unlocking these emotions.

How is this done?

The answer, for us, starts with Ernest Hemingway. The great American author developed a writing technique he called the Iceberg Theory. It is a theory that has been built upon and developed over the years. It is also the foundation for the writing techniques you will learn in this book. The Iceberg Theory’s foundational concept is that universal emotions exist. These are deep, truthful emotions that are shared by all readers. All readers will understand, at a subconscious level, emotions such as happiness, sadness and the infinite shades between. The goal of the author is to tap into these emotions. Since these true emotions are understood at a gut level, words attempting to describe the emotions are, at best, ineffective. Instead, a writer must use the words and actions of their character to reflect these deeper emotions, in the process unlocking them for the reader.

**By showing the reader events, situations and conversations that are born from these emotions, they are, in turn, evoked in a reader.**

These types of emotional cues already exist in your life. I am betting that there’s a piece of music that instantly transforms you back to a moment in time, a smell that conjures a memory or a taste that takes you back to your childhood.  

We are trying to do the same with words.

This sounds all very airy-fairy, but the result is simple.

Think of it this way. Have you ever cried when reading a book or watching a film? I am thinking that, unless you have a waxy pea-size heart, the answer is yes. Well, that book/film tapped into a true emotion and stimulated it in your mind, hence the tears.

This sounds complicated, right?

Well, the techniques you need to stimulate true emotions are, actually, simple.

You must focus your energies on developing characters who act truthfully. It is these characters’ actions and dialogue that will stimulate the emotion in your reader.

I’ll say it again since it is the key concept of this book.

You must write in a way that forces the reader to engage with your characters. You do this by describing to the reader what your characters are doing and saying. The reason is that readers will then imagine the scenes in their mind as they unfold. Brains are weird things and often have trouble confusing thoughts with reality.

This means, as the scenes unfold, the reader will experience the emotions that these scenes stimulate. The result is that you, the author, must describe (or **show**) as much as possible. This means, less telling the reader what to see and think, and more showing of events and words. The lack of **tell** creates a space between the reader and the novel’s characters, it is in this space that the emotion grows. 

The beauty of the approach (apart from the fact it works) is that you will NOT need to learn any new, complicated techniques. In fact, for this way of writing to work, you will be doing less, not more. You will discover a simple set of rules that, when applied, will bring the Iceberg Theory to life.

This has been a lot, and there's a good chance it may leave you feeling a little overwhelmed. We will be diving into the weeds over the coming chapters, so this is all going to make sense. However, at this moment there's one thing I want you to take away. If you have a character that is sad, you don't write 'John was sad'. Instead, you describe the words and actions of a sad made. If you do this in a way that is truthful, you will show the reader that John is sad and, in turn, the reader will feel sad. 

Nothing boring about that!

In the following chapters, we will take a pragmatic look at the way you should be writing. We will look at each element in turn and set out a toolbox of simple techniques you can use in your day-to-day writing.